Class	Descriptions	Notes
Knight	The Barbarian class is the workhorse fighting class.  Barbarians start with the largest selection of weapons and armor, and may ultimately use any type of weapon or armor, Being the toughest warriors of the classes, Barbarians begin with the greatest number of hit points and get the most number of hit points when they advance in level.  Barbarians may never learn spells, nor may they ever learn (or need) the Meditation skill.	Barbarian
Cavalier	The Slayer class is the first promotion of the Barbarian.  Slayers may use any type of weapon or armor, but they may not learn spells.  Slayers enjoy the benefit of an extra two hit points per level, and can be promoted once more to either Champion or Black Barbarian status with another two hit point per level gain.  	Barbarian
Champion	The Chieftain class is the second and last promotion of Barbarians who follow the path of Light.  Chieftains may use any type of weapon or armor, but they may not learn spells.  Chieftains enjoy the benefit of an extra four hit points per level.  Chieftains can grandmaster in the Plate, Shield, Sword, and Spear skills.	Barbarian
Black Barbarian	The Executor is the second and last promotion of Barbarians who follow the path of Darkness.  Executors may use any type of weapon or armor, but they may not learn spells.  Executors enjoy the benefit of an extra four hit points per level.  Executors may grandmaster in the Plate, Shield Sword, and Spear skills.	Barbarian
Pirate	The Pirate class concentrates less on fighting and more on utility skills, such as disarming traps and stealing.  Although they aren't as good with weapons and armor as Barbarians, Thieves are still better fighters than the semi and full spell using classes.  Thieves may eventually use spells from the Elemental schools, but they will never be very good at them.	Pirate
Corsair	The Corsair class is the first promotion from Pirate.  Corsairs get an additional 2 hit points per level.  They also gain the ability to cast spells and one spell point per level to do it with.	Pirate
Captain	The Captain class is the final promotion for thieves following the path of Light.  Spies gain two more hit points per level and can grandmaster in Leather, Dagger, Disarm Traps, and Steal.	Pirate
Hexblade	The Hexblade class is the final promotion for thieves following the path of Darkness.  Hexblades gain two more hit points per level and can grandmaster in Leather, Dagger, Disarm Traps, and Steal.	Pirate
Private	Privates concentrate on unarmed combat.  Private are second only to Barbarians in combat, and they have access to spells from the Shamanal schools (Spirit, Mind, and Body) of magic when they are promoted to Initiate.	Mercenary
Major	Major is the first promotion of the Monk class.  Majors gain an additional hit point and spell point per level, as well as the ability to cast spells from the Shamanal schools of magic.	Mercenary
General	General is the final promotion for Private following the path of Light. Private gain 2 more hit points per level and may become experts in their magical skills.  Private may grandGeneral in Dodge, Unarmed combat, Staff, Learning, and Body Building.	Mercenary
Warlord 	Warlord is the final promotion for Private following the path of Darkness. Warlords gain 2 more hit points per level may grandGeneral in Dodge, Unarmed combat, Staff, Learning, and Body Building.	Mercenary
Guardian	A cross between Barbarian and Shaman, Guardians perform both roles well, but not as well as the more focused classes they borrow from.  Like Barbarians, Guardian can learn to use any type of weapon or armor, although they don’t have as many choices to begin with.  Guardian also begin with the Spirit realm of magic, and can also learn to use the Shamanal Mind and Body realms.  Their skill in the greater realms of Light and Dark is sharply limited, and they may never learn any of the Elemental realms.	Guardian
Defender	Defender is the first Paladin promotion.  Defenders can learn to use any type of weapon or armor, and they can learn the Shamanal magics of Spirit, Mind, and Body.  Defenders enjoy the benefit of an extra hit point and spell point per level, and can be promoted to Heroes or Villains, gaining an additional hit point and spell point per level.	Guardian
Keeper of Light	Keeper of Light is the second and last Paladin promotion for Guardian following the path of Light.  Keeper of Light gain an extra hit point and spell point per level. Keeper of Lightes may grandGeneral in the Repair, Mace, and Shield skills.  Keeper of Lightes also gain the ability to learn spells from the realm of Light magic.	Guardian
Keeper of Darkness	Keeper of Darkness is the second and last Paladin promotion for Guardian following the path of Darkness.  Keeper of Darknesss gain an extra hit point and spell point per level. Keeper of Darknesss may grandGeneral in the Repair, Mace, and Shield skills.  Keeper of Darknesss also gain the ability to learn spells from the realm of Light magic.	Guardian

Ninja	Like the Guardian, the Ninja is a hybrid of the Barbarian and Sorcerer classes.  Ninjas may learn to use all weapons except the mace, (specializing in the bow, of course) but they may never learn the shield or plate armor skills.  They are compensated with the ability to learn magic from the elemental schools.  The greater realms of Light and Dark can be learned on their second promotions, but they will never be very skilled in them.  	Ninja
Ninja Master	Ninja Master is the first Ninja promotion.  Ninja Masters gain an extra hit point and spell point per level, and (more importantly) may achieve expert ranking in their magical skills.	Ninja
Enlightened	Enlightened is the second and last Ninja promotion for Ninjas following the path of Light.  Enlighteneds may grandGeneral in Chain armor, Bow, and Perception, and enjoy the benefit of an extra hit point and spell point per level.  Enlighteneds also gain the ability to learn spells from the realm of Light magic.	Ninja
Shadow	Shadow is the second and last Ninja promotion for Ninjas following the path of Darkness.  Shadows may grandGeneral in Chain armor, Bow, and Perception, and enjoy the benefit of an extra hit point and spell point per level.  Shadows also gain the ability to learn spells from the realm of Dark magic.	Ninja
Hunter	Rangers are a cross between Barbarians and Druids.  Of all the classes, Rangers may learn the broadest range of skills, but can General few of them.  Rangers may eventually learn both the Elemental and Shamanal realms of magic, leaving only the greater realms of Light and Dark out of their reach.  Hunters may also learn to use most weapons, armor, and secondary skills, with only Plate and Mace beyond their reach.	Hunter
Monster Hunter	The Monster Hunter is the first class promotion for the Ranger.  Monster Hunters gain 2 extra spell points and 1 extra hit point per level, and may achieve expert ranking in all of their spell skills.  They also gain access to all of their spell skills at this point.	Hunter
Inquisitor	Inquisitor is the final promotion available to Rangers following the path of Light.  Inquisitors gain an extra hit point and spell point per level, and may achieve expert ranking in their spell skills.  Inquisitors may grandGeneral in Axe and Identify Monster.	Hunter
Blood Knight	Blood Knight is the final promotion available to Rangers following the path of Darkness.  Blood Knights gain an extra hit point and spell point per level, and may achieve expert ranking in their spell skills.  Blood Knights may grandGeneral in Axe and Identify Monster.	Hunter

Shaman	Shamans are adventuring, spell casting holy men.  A Shaman is a mediocre fighter but an excellent spell caster, with spells concentrating on healing and defensive themes.  Shamans and Sorcerers are the only two classes that can grandGeneral in the Mirrored Path of the Light and the Dark, and the awesome spells these realms of magic offer.  They are, unfortunately, rather limited in their weapons, with mace, staff, and bow being their only choices.  Defense is a little better with plate and dodge skill being the only kind forbidden them.  	Shaman
Druid	Druid is the first Shaman Promotion.  They enjoy the benefit of an extra hit point and spell point per level, and can be promoted to Druid of the Light or Druid of the Dark to gain another hit point and spell point per level.	Shaman
Arch Abbot	Arch Abbot is the second and last Shaman promotion for Shamans following the path of Light.  Druids of the Light can learn and grandGeneral in spells from the realm of Light. Druids of the Light gain an extra hit point and spell point per level, and may grandGeneral in all of their spell skills and the Merchant skill.	Shaman
Abbot of Baa	Abbot of Baa is the second and last Shaman promotion for Shamans following the path of Darkness.  Druids of the Dark can learn and grandGeneral in spells from the realm of Dark. Druids of the Dark gain an extra hit point and spell point per level, and may grandGeneral in all of their spell skills and the Merchant skill.	Shaman

Witch	Witchs are a hybrid of the Sorcerer and Shaman classes.  They make poor fighters (better only than the lowly Sorcerer) and have relatively few hit points.  On the plus side, Witchs can use both Sorcerer and Shamanal magic.  Witchs may not learn Light and Dark magic, and they can only use the staff, dagger, mace, and bow as weapons while wearing only leather and shield as armor.  Most secondary skills are open to the Witch.    	Witch
Warlock	Warlocks are the first Witch promotion.  Warlocks enjoy the benefit of an extra hit point and spell point per level, and may be promoted to Arch Witch or Warlock, gaining another hit point and spell point per level.  This promotion permits Witchs to learn their spell skills to General rank.	Witch
Witch King	Witch Kings are the second and last Witch promotion for Witchs following the path of Light.  Witch Kings get another hit point and spell point per level, and may grandGeneral in the Alchemy and Meditation skills. 	Witch
Lich	Lichs are the second and last Witch promotion for Witchs following the path of Dark.  Lichs get another hit point and spell point per level, and may grandGeneral in the Alchemy and Meditation skills. 	Witch

Travel Mage	Students of the realm of Elemental magic, Travel Mages concentrate on offensive and utilitarian magic.  Travel Mages are downright rotten fighters barely able to learn to use the dagger, the staff, and the bow effectively.  They are allowed to use only leather armor, cannot use shield, and have the lowest hit points of all the classes.  With that aside, Travel Mages can wield mighty offensive spells and have access to the Mirrored Path of the Light and the Dark, from which come the best spells in the lands.  	Travel Mage
Sorcerer	Sorcerers are the first Travel Mage promotion.  Sorcerers enjoy the benefit of an extra hit point and extra spell point per level, and they can be promoted to Arch Mage or Lich, gaining another hit point and spell point per level.	Travel Mage
Adept	Adepts is the second and last Travel Mage promotion for Travel Mages following the path of Light.  Upon their promotions, Adepts gain two additional spell points per level, and access to the realm of Light magic.  Adepts can grandGeneral in all their spell skills, plus Identify Monster and Identify Item.	Travel Mage
Warmage	"Warmage is the second and last Travel Mage promotion for Travel Mages following the path of Dark.  This status is achieved through a vile process wherein the Warmage-to-be stores his organs in a magical jar that he must guard.  Upon their ""ascension"", Warmagees gain two additional spell points per level, and access to the realm of Dark magic.  Warmagees can grandGeneral in all their spell skills, plus Identify Monster and Identify Item.  They are harmed by exposure to light but will constantly generate their own spell points."	Travel Mage
